
EX188

Red Hat Certified Specialist in Containers exam 

You should be able to demonstrate these skills and abilities:

Implement images using Podman

        Understand and use FROM (the concept of a base image) instruction.
        Understand and use RUN instruction.
        Understand and use ADD instruction.
        Understand and use COPY instruction.
        Understand the difference between ADD and COPY instructions.
        Understand and use WORKDIR and USER instructions.
        Understand security-related topics.
        Understand the differences and applicability of CMD vs. ENTRYPOINT instructions.
        Understand ENTRYPOINT instruction with param.
        Understand when and how to expose ports from a Containerfile.
        Understand and use environment variables inside images.
        Understand ENV instruction.
        Understand container volume.
        Mount a host directory as a data volume.
        Understand security and permissions requirements related to this approach.
        Understand the lifecycle and cleanup requirements of this approach.



Manage images

        Understand private registry security.
        Interact with many different registries.
        Understand and use image tags
        Push and pull images from and to registries.
        Back up an image with its layers and meta data vs. backup a container state.



Run containers locally using Podman

        Run containers locally using Podman
        Get container logs.
        Listen to container events on the container host.
        Use Podman inspect.
        Specifying environment parameters.
        Expose public applications.
        Get application logs.
        Inspect running applications.



Run multi-container applications with Podman

        Create application stacks
        Understand container dependencies
        Working with environment variables
        Working with secrets
        Working with volumes
        Working with configuration



Troubleshoot containerized applications

        Understand the description of application resources
        Get application logs
        Inspect running applications
        Connecting to running containers



https://www.redhat.com/en/services/training/ex188-red-hat-certified-specialist-containers-exam?section=objectives


